# Table of Contents

1.  [Introduction](#org520861a)
2.  [Adding a third variable using binary string representations](#org9137fcf)
3.  [Recursion scheme](#orgfefc2bd)
4.  [Test cases](#org761ee4d)
5.  [Complexity](#orgbadfd85)


<a id="org520861a"></a>

# Introduction

At first glance, this problem seems to be easily solvable using dynamic programming. Step number sequences can be simply tracked using two variables, \(n\) for length and \(l\) for the last digit. The difficulty here is that we also need to track when a number is pandigital, which is not very straight-forward to implement.


<a id="org9137fcf"></a>

# Adding a third variable using binary string representations

Let's first repeat the definition of a pandigital number (in this problem): a number \(n\) is called **pandigital** if it contains every decimal digit from \(0\) to \(9\) at least once. Given a number \(n\), if we can track its digits, then it is very easy to track if its pandigital or not. Note that there are only \(2^{10}\) subsets of the 10-digits, so we can use a <span class="underline">binary-string</span> representation to encode the digits of some number \(n\). This simply means that we map the digits of a number \(n\) to an `array` with length \(10\), where `array[i] = 1` if it contains digit \(i\) and zero otherwise.

For example, take the number \(2349100\). Then its binary-string representation is:

    [1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1]

    # Digit array below for reference
    [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]

A pandigital number is uniquely represented by the 10-bit binary string with all ones, as this means that every digit is included. Using this representation, we can add a third variable to the dynamic programming scheme: \(i\), which denotes the $i$-th index in some ordering of all 10-bit binary string representations. Using a mapping between indices and binary string representations, we can now use this for our


<a id="orgfefc2bd"></a>

# Recursion scheme

Usually when I describe the recursion scheme for dynamic programming algorithms, I tend to describe them as follows:
`current iteration = function of previous iterations`
This time, there's an alternative that's a little bit easier:
`function of current iterations (i.e. next iteration) = current iteration`

    D[n][l+1][f(i, l+1)] += D[n][l][i]
    D[n][l-1][f(i, l-1)] += D[n][l][i]

Let's try to understand this scheme. Given `D[n][l][i]`, that is, the count of numbers with \(n\) digits, the last digit being \(l\) and with a binary string representation \(i\), we can use update the count of numbers with \(n+1\) digits and last digits \(l+1\) or \(l-1\). We can either go 'up' 1 digit, so we go from \(l\) to \(l+1\), or we can go 'down' 1 digit, from \(l\) to \(l-1\). In both cases, the binary representation of the numbers will also change, which we update using some function \(f\) (see code).

Note that there are two expections: if \(l\) is 9 or 0, there is only one step down or up respectively.


<a id="org761ee4d"></a>

# Test cases

The problem description does not provide any test cases, but there is one obvious test case: up to (and including) 10 digit numbers, there is only 1 pandigital step number: 9876543210.


<a id="orgbadfd85"></a>

# Complexity

As we are using a standard dynamic programming template, it should not be very difficult to observe that the time-complexity of this algorithm is \(O(n*d*s)\), where \(n\) is the maximum length of the numbers, \(d\) is the number of digits and \(s\) is the number of $d$-digit subsets. Plugging in the numbers leads to roughly ~400k for-loop iterations, which is reasonably executable in the given 1 minute.
